This video is going to sound like I
really dislike chord code, and I do. But
honestly, even if all it can do is
rewrite existing software, but worse and
in Rust, then there is no doubt that it
will replace most modern developers.
Over the course of 2 weeks, a team of
clawed code agents built a C compiler
from scratch. Let's get one thing out of
the way first. Of course, it can compile
hello world. This controversial issue is
just 100% user error. If I do exactly
what the readme says using Linux and
compiling the program with cargo, I can
run the exact command that's prescribed
and you can clearly see that it doesn't
work. Well, you know, that's not fair.
It's not actually an issue with the
compiler. The standard library should
just be available. Take Wreck for
example, another C compiler written in
Rust with no dependencies. It was made
by a solo dev in his spare time. And
when I follow the same process, it will
obviously run into the same issue that
Claude did. Yeah. Okay, it works
completely fine, but that's that's not
fair. How's Claude supposed to know
where the sanded library is? It's only
been in the same spot for 20 years.
Anyway, this is kind of embarrassing for
Claude, but it's a reasonable mistake
and not a good enough reason to throw
away the whole compiler. Once the
dependencies are set up correctly, it
can genuinely compile hello world and
the Linux kernel, which is by no means
an easy feat and something that Wreck is
unable to do. I found this guide showing
you how to compile the Linux kernel. I'm
using the version of Linux that claude
code used and according to this text
file in the repo I can run the same
commands but change for C compiler by
setting the CC and host CC variables.
The first make to create the config
works correctly but the main make the
one that I assume builds for kernel
returns an error from CCC that saysov
requires two operants got one. And look,
I'm not some kind of assembly genius,
but to me it sounds like the compiler
couldn't even create correct syntax for
assembly, which is impressive because
assembly probably has the simplest
syntax of any language. It's just a
keyword followed by one or two
variables, but it somehow managed to get
that wrong. I'll be honest though, I'm
not familiar with building Linux from
source, so I'm willing to admit that I
may have done something wrong. But come
to think of it, I haven't seen a single
person use this to compile the Linux
kernel and then use that to actually run
Linux. I ran into an assembly issue.
This guy ran into a linking issue and
gave up. And this other person testing
the compiler didn't even use it with the
Linux kernel. When the guy recreated
Coke from scratch, it took 2 days for
someone to reproduce the same recipe in
their backyard. But I still haven't seen
anyone use this public GitHub repository
to do the exact thing that it's marketed
as doing. Are we really just going to
believe these claims when the example in
the readme doesn't even work for most
modern Linux distros? If there is an
example of someone doing this, please
let me know because I would love to see
it. Okay, so I had another look while
editing and I did find someone who
managed to compile and run Linux, but
that's using risk 5 and a VM. So I don't
know if it's an x86 issue. If it is,
maybe they just shouldn't put that in
the repo description. I might still be
missing something and it is possible to
compile it on x86. So if there is, I'll
just leave that in the pin comment. But
for now, let's assume that
hypothetically it does compile the Linux
kernel as advertised. This whole
compiler is still completely useless.
This is the perfect project for an LLM
to tackle. It's impressive and somewhat
novel, but it's very well doumented with
many examples across different languages
in the training set. Saying that this
compiler only cost $20,000 to make is
disingenuous in my opinion since it's
not factoring in the thousands of hours
that were spent writing tests that
happen to be useful for this exact use
case. Tests that other projects simply
won't have. Claude got to use many
existing test suites for GCC and for C
programs like SQLite and Postgress all
for free. tests that you would have to
spend time writing if you were actually
creating a new project with additional
tests that the researchers had to write
when it still kept getting stuck. And
when that didn't work, they just gave up
and let it see what GCC does so that it
could copy that. And even then, it's
barely functional. I cannot believe that
Enthropic published this blog post,
especially with all the details of how
this just did not work at all. This is
not a usable compiler, and even when it
does compile, it's mind-numbingly slow.
I mentioned Hashanu's blog post before.
He took some time to benchmark SQLite
when compiled with GCC and with Claude C
compiler. It managed to compile SQLite
because SQLite is one of the simplest C
projects to compile ever created. Simple
queries are up to seven times slower.
But the real banger is this nested
subquery that takes 4700th of a second
in GCC but over 2 hours with Claude's
compiler. That's a 158,129
times increase. I'm cherry-picking the
worst offender, but come on, how is that
even possible? And sometimes the joints
also just don't work. So, not sure about
that one. And good luck fixing that
because the codebase is now at a point
where Claude cannot make new changes
without breaking existing functionality.
Anthropic has written in plain words
what our future will look like if we go
down this path, and some still treat
this as a massive success. There is no
reason to use this project. It provides
no benefit over the existing compiler.
And I think this is the perfect
representation of what LLM coding feels
like. It's expensive, confusing, and at
the end, you're left with something
that's somehow even worse than when you
started. And even with every single
advantage it had, this project still
serves no purpose. In fact, I'm going to
create an even better cla compiler named
BCC. And it's going to take 2 minutes
instead of two weeks. I'm using codeex
because that's what I've been given a
license for, but they're all the same.
My compiler is just a simple bash
script. I write a prompt that tells the
LLM to guess what the project is based
off the source file names, generate C
files, and then compile it using GCC.
This compiler successfully compiles
Hello World with no issues first try.
And if you just believe me without
trying it yourself, it also compiles the
Linux kernel in record time, I might
add. meaning this compiler is better or
at least equivalent to Claude's original
C compiler. But none of this even
matters. LLMs will still become
ubiquitous. As developers, we have shown
an unnerving determination to make the
wrong choice at every conceivable
opportunity. We did it with JavaScript
in the browser. We did it with cloud
computing. We did it with frameworks.
And it will be the same story with LMS.
The initial velocity increase and
marketing hype is enough for people to
convince themselves that this is a good
decision. Despite the clear evidence
that these short-term benefits are far
outweighed by the long-term trade-off,
the majority of developers will spend
most of their time vibe coding. But the
whole system will not collapse. It will
just get worse. There will be more bugs
and more security vulnerabilities and
everything will break and users will
just live with it and it will become the
new normal. I actually predict
programming jobs will go up since our
industry has a history of creating
terrible practices and then compensating
by hiring magnitudes more developers.
You'd be forgiven for forgetting that
the mythical man month was released in
1975, more than 50 years ago. And it's
sad to be a programmer in a world where
everything we do is a broken mess and
nobody cares. But just when I was about
to give up all hope, the man, the myth,
the legend, the Sha Barrett has decided
to start streaming again. This guy was
writing CC code in Visual Studio 6
before I was born. And you can bet that
he's writing CC code in Visual Studio 6
today. And that's what I love about
software. Everything always changes.
Tools and technologies come and go. But
at the end of the day, it all compiles
to the same assembly and runs on the
same CPU. Well, it doesn't always
compile to the same assembly. You should
just use GCC.
Thank you for watching. And I'm supposed
to say that you have to smash the
subscribe button. I don't know what that
means. Got to smash it. Smash the
button. Smash the subscribe button. SM.